Hello everyone. Thank you all for
joining us today. Um, my name is Kevin.
Uh, I'm an engineer here at Anthropic.
And today we'll be learning about how to
build agents that remember. Um so uh
today we're going to talk a little bit
about the base case with agents today uh
which is that they are isolated and this
kind of limits their usefulness in a lot
of real world workflows. Uh we'll look
at how we can actually solve this
problem uh with our new agent memory
stores feature that we've launched. Uh
this will give agents access to a live
memory store that they can read and
write to over multiple sessions. And
then we'll look at how we can improve
these memory stores over time uh using a
new feature that we call dreaming. Uh
and then finally we'll get to see how
all of this ties together with both our
CLI and also our awesome console
interface.
Um so in the previous uh workshops I
think we've learned a little bit about
how cloud manage agents has these
concepts called an agent environment and
a session. Uh in this workshop we're
going to add two additional concepts
here. The first one here is a memory
store. Uh so a memory store is a
persistent file system-l like store that
gives uh that attaches as a resource to
sessions that you create and it gives
agents access to uh it gives agents the
ability to read and write information
across sessions.
A dream uh is what is a asynchronous job
that runs in the background. uh it looks
over an input memory store and a bunch
of your previous sessions that are
represented as transcripts and then we
run a harness over them to distill new
information that maybe the original
agents missed. We do things like
factchecking. Uh we also organize and
consolidate and duplicate information so
that your memory stores don't grow
unbounded over time.
So uh also in case anyone in this room
has not already uh downloaded the
workshop repository you'll need for this
uh here is the URL. I'll give a few
seconds for folks to just grab that.
Okay. Um so let's kind of like talk a
little bit about the problem today. So
when you when you create agents on cloud
manage agents today and sessions um most
of the time you're creating one session
at a time and these are isolated right?
the agent doesn't remember information
from the past and it doesn't transfer
information to future sessions. Um so I
want to kind of like take us through
this this base case today. Uh so if I
switch over to my computer
um I'm in our workshop repository here.
Uh hopefully everyone can see this uh in
the back but I've just run the bootstrap
script that we've uh included in the
repository. Uh and what this has done is
basically created uh some seed
information for us. We have an agent uh
we have an environment and we have a few
like previous sessions that talk about
things like the keynotes uh from day one
as well as you know uh a previous
workshop. And so uh what I'm going to do
from here is actually go ahead and start
walking through this guide with you
guys. Feel free to follow along your
computers. I'll be using the CLI and
then also showing kind of the console
interface uh for each of these steps. So
first we're going to create a session
that basically tells it some some new
information. Uh so I'm going to copy
this command here.
And as you can see we are creating a
session with the agents that we've
created before uh with the environment
ID. Uh and we've given a title here of
just like write test with no memory.
Great. Uh so now that we created the
session uh I'm going to quickly switch
over to my console here. Um and you'll
see that
just move this over. You'll see that the
session shows up in console. Uh it
doesn't it has a status of idle. Nothing
running yet. Uh so then we're going to
switch back and then I'm going to send
this session some new information. Uh so
once I copy this
and what I'm doing here is sending a
first user message here with information
about the CMA talk yesterday. uh naming
a few keywords like multi- aent
orchestration multi- aent orchestration
outcomes in memory and I've also just
given it this URL you know example that
I took notes and uploaded them here.
So, if I switch back over to my console,
uh, we should see this event pop up.
And what we sort of expect the the agent
or the model will do here is it'll just
respond and say like, great, thanks for
the information. Not sure what else you
want me to do here. Uh, so we'll give it
a sec and maybe folks to catch up.
See, we get a little refresh.
Ah, sorry. Yeah. So, it looks like the
model responded here.
Just collapse this. Yeah, it's basically
saying, okay, great. Thanks for telling
me this information. Uh, so then if we
go,
>> sorry,
>> uh, this is using, I believe, sonnet,
the agent that was created at the
beginning.
Yeah. Um,
cool. So, if I go back here, uh, to my
workshop here, we're going to create
basically a second section that's kind
of the retest. So, I'll go through these
steps a little bit faster.
Uh, and then again I'll send it a
message here. That's this time I'm going
to ask it for information about the
stuff that I just told it.
And if I go back to our console here and
check out the other session that should
have been created,
we would expect the agent to basically
um say something like, "Yeah, I don't
really have access to this information.
I can help you in these various ways."
Great. So that's effectively the base
case today. Uh so if I go back to the
slides
real quick, this is a quick recap of
what we did. We told it something, asked
another session about it later. No
information is transferred between the
sessions.
So how do we solve this problem? Right?
Um just like in humans, uh we've
introduced the sort of concept of
memory. And again, a memory store here
in the cloud manage agents platform is a
file system like store. uh under the
hood you can or you can create as many
memory stores as you like here. So you
don't have to necessarily restrict a
memory store to one organization. You
could create it per user, per workspace,
etc. It's up to you to kind of define
what the boundaries of the memory store
are. Uh and then under the hood, this
memory store gets attached as a file
system to the the session container and
the model has tools to read and write to
it. Uh the actual interesting thing here
is that we've actually you mounted it as
a file system because it's such a
powerful interface for the model. uh you
can use things like bash to like uh like
explore the file system. It can use GP
to kind of search for keywords. It can
also read files and do a bunch of like
really powerful things um that make it
much more useful for the agent.
Um so I'll switch back to my computer
here and we'll walk through kind of how
to create a memory store.
Um so first things first is actually
creating it. So I'm going to copy this
uh command here. Feel free again to
follow along on your computers. Um, and
the kind of parameters that you need
here are mainly just like a name. Uh, so
I'm calling mine CWC memory. You can
give it a quick description. Uh, and
then I'll show you also in console later
that there are two additional parameters
that you can set here. But let me just
follow through with a simple example.
Uh, once I create this memory store, you
can actually see it in console under
manage agents memory stores.
and you'll see that it's active. Uh you
can actually click into it and view uh
essentially a file system viewer of
what's currently in it. Of course,
there's nothing in it right now.
Additionally, uh we offer functionality
uh we offer the ability for you to like
add manually add memories. So you can
create like a file under a specific
path, add some content, etc.
If I go back just a brief second and
talk about uh creating a new memory
store, there's actually two sort of
additional parameters that you can uh
set on the memory store uh when we
actually mount it. So if I go back to
the repository here, um the next step
once you create a memory store is to
actually use it with your sessions. So
I'm going to again copy a few of these
commands. So the first one here is
basically just giving us the shape that
we need to pass the sessions API
request. I'll paste it in our terminal
here so we can see it better.
Um so again the memory store here you
just pass in a memory store ID. Uh and
you can also give it a prompt around uh
that will steer the agent to read and
write specific information. So you might
want it to focus on maybe like a
specific um link or a specific like area
of focus on. Let's say you're making
making like a investment agent, right?
And you wanted to focus on specific
things to remember future. Uh so you can
do that with a prompt parameter.
Additionally, there is an access field
uh that defaults to read or write. Um
you can change that to read only which
will make it so that the session and the
agent will only be able to read from
that memory store. It cannot update it.
So once I run this um you'll see I have
created a new session in console.
Uh, and this time it'll have a memory
store attached.
And then if I send an event here, this
time we'll just basically repeat the
test that we did just before. So let me
grab this
again. Same text as before. We're
telling it new information. Uh, and
hopefully we'll be able to observe a
different behavior this time.
Yeah. So clicking into uh if you click
into the session details, you'll see the
the information that I just gave it.
And now the model is like first looking
at memory to see okay, was there
anything that like I need to remember
for this conversation.
Uh and now it's going to actually like
of course there's nothing in our memory
store. So now what it's going to do is
actually save the content that I told it
to that memory store directly. and it
saved it under this like sessions.mmd
file and it's great telling me that uh
what it did.
Um, so then if I go back and do that
same test that we did before, this time
I'll just copy both.
Sorry,
again where this time we're going to
create a new session with the same
memory store that we were just using.
Uh, and we will send it an event here
asking it what are the things that it
found or it learned from the CMA talk.
Once again, going back to our console
UI, we can see the recall test running.
And as we would expect, the model is now
first looking at its memory store to see
if there's any information. And again,
it's now using GP to find uh any sort of
keywords here. It's looking for CMA. And
great, it found like a lot of
information that we just told it from
the from a previous session. And now
it's able to answer my question, right?
And this is like of course a very simple
example, but this illustrates kind of
the power of of memory. And this is like
something that was kind of difficult to
do before, right?
I'll give quick pause in case anyone's
struggling.
Um, okay, great. So what what else kind
of can can you do with a memory store
here? Well, we actually offer uh
additional sort of endpoints that allow
you to manually inspect the store
itself. Uh so I'll use the CLI here, but
for instance, you can list all of the
memory files that are in the memory
store.
We can like do that. Um there's also
each uh memory a memory stores memory
files in a memory store are also
versioned. Uh so anytime you make a
change to a file, etc., there's a new
version that's created and we offer a
set of endpoints for that.
And then I can also kind of take you
through the memory store UI.
So each memory store you create again is
here. And if we go back to our like kind
of file system viewer, you can actually
see the files that it created. Uh there
will be like a directory structure here.
If Claude is creating kind of
subdirectories to organize memory files,
you can actually edit these memory files
directly if you wanted to. So for
instance, if Claude wrote something u
that was incorrect or maybe you just
wanted to add more information, you can
do that. And again, as we saw before,
you can add additional memories to a
memory store.
Uh okay, so I'm going to go back to the
slides real quick.
And as we just talked about, uh this is
how you create a memory store and then
mount it on a session that you want to
use it on. Again, it's up to you to kind
of decide which of your sessions will
use memory, which ones will not.
Uh, we also saw how you can like list
memories and see what's currently in a
memory store.
And let's move on to talk a little bit
about dreaming. Now, um, so when you
have agents that are reading and writing
to this memory store over time, uh,
we've noticed that often times it can
start just kind of dumping information
to that memory store. So it'll start
writing maybe every every task you ask
it to do maybe records information right
and over time your memory store is going
to grow right and there's no real
process uh before that would allow you
to sort of organize that memory maybe
check to see if anything was stale and
and consolidate any duplicates right and
so this is where dreaming comes in uh
dreaming is a is a batch process that
runs again asynchronously you launch it
uh using uh our API or through console
and it'll run a a new dreaming harness
that we built that is a multi- aent
setup. It will look over each of the
input sessions that you've given it. So
you specify like an input memory store
that you want it to dream over along
with like a group of transcripts that
you think might help or enrich that
memory store. It'll look through each
one, do again factchecking, enriching
with additional details, maybe dates,
specific identifiers. Uh and then it
will also organize those memory files
and see if there's any duplicates,
anything that can help uh fix so that
when you and it'll produce an output
memory store such that in the future
when you attach that output to
additional sessions, it will hopefully
increase efficiency uh efficiency of
like information retrieval. It also
hopefully increase the intelligence of
the agent.
So let's take a look at how this works.
Again, switch back to my computer and
we'll walk through it together.
Uh so what you to to get get started
with dreaming basically you'll need to
actually create the dream job
and I'll go through a little bit of the
parameters here. So the model uh here
that we're choosing is cloud opus 47.
You can choose between opus 47 or sonnet
46 depending on kind of the level of
quality you want as well as maybe like
token costs. Uh it takes in two inputs.
So you'll need the memory store that you
want it to dream over as well as a list
of session ids. Uh so this is up to you
to decide. You can you know maybe dream
over daily and dream over maybe like 10
sessions at a time or 20, right? It
could go you know all the way up to like
a 100. We're also looking to scale it
further uh beyond that. Uh optionally
you can also provide the dream job some
additional instructions that you might
add. So we provide it with a default
prompt that does a bunch of things. If
you wanted dreaming to for instance
specifically fix a few things like maybe
you're working in a domain that requires
like very specific details right you
might ask a dream job to really focus on
hey make sure you back fill these
details so I remember for the future
right you can also get it to you can
also steer it to maybe like organize
files a bit more like I want this
specific structure in my memory store
please do that uh so let's actually go
and run this command here
great we'll get we'll get back a dream
ID and then once Again, I'll go back to
our console here. And so dreams are
under again manage agents dreams.
And once I create the dream job, it'll
start p it'll start with pending, but
it'll start running pretty shortly
after. And you can actually see the
status of the job both in console and
through the API. I'll show both. But in
console here, you'll see the input
memory store as well as a token count.
And generally like uh dream job can take
you know depending on the size or the
number of transcripts that you give it.
It could take anywhere from you know a
couple minutes to hours at a time. Uh
and that's really the benefit of doing
it asynchronously right like this is not
something that you want to do live while
your agents are working. And we'll just
give it a a minute here to to run. As
you can see as it's running as agents or
as the harness itself is running we're
updating the token count for you so you
can track its progress over time. The
other really cool thing here is that uh
dreaming is actually built directly on
top of cloud manage agents primitives.
Uh so you can actually see that we are
creating a session for the dream job
itself and you can actually click into
it see exactly what the dream is doing.
Uh this offers a really nice amount of
like observability and so you can like
diagnose issues potentially. Um and so
you can see the prompt that we give it.
Uh there's a lot of details here that
I'll kind of that you can explore on
your own time, but the under the hood,
the the dreaming harness itself is
launching sub agents to look over all of
the transits that you've given it. And
each sub agent essentially has a system
prompt that tells it what to do. Look
over and the orchestrator is responsible
for just like making sure all the agents
are running and kicking them off as they
go.
Uh so we'll give it another minute for
to let this run.
Uh, another thing to call out here is
that while uh we don't actually touch
the input memory store at all that you
create. So this is a non-destructive
process. What we actually do is we will
clone your input memory store uh into
what's called an output memory store.
And the dream job will be writing
basically to a new memory store such
that any edits that are made are
non-destructive. And then we'll see down
the line how you can utilize this output
memory store in your future sessions.
Generally this takes about a minute or
so depending on uh how fast the job
runs.
Uh, one other thing is that you'll see
that I'm sort of checking on the job
periodically uh as it's running in
console. Uh, when you do this
programmatically, we offer an API that
allows you to just essentially query uh
for the dream job and it'll have a
status uh so you can pull for the
status. Great. So, looks like it just
completed. Um and the cool thing here is
that in console we actually show you a
diff of what it did. Uh so you can see
dreaming here it created an index file.
Uh this index file has sort of these
slugs that reference the various like
memory files that uh a future agent
might need. And the main goal of this is
really just that future agents uh it's a
lot more efficient to kind of look at an
index file and quickly grock like what
it needs to go look for instead of maybe
doing a a wider GP.
Additionally, it's actually adding like
additional information that was not
present in the in the first couple
sessions that I created. So, it's
creating this event logistics file. It
gives the whole schedule of code with
claude. Um, a bunch of names as well.
Uh, and again schedule for day two.
Uh, and you also see that it actually
kind of reformatted the memory file that
I created in a previous session. So this
time it is adding again a slug, a
description of the event, some
additional metadata and again adding
more details. Um and generally we find
that like uh more information actually
really does help future sessions. And if
you think about intuitively um while an
agent's working on a task currently,
it's kind of hard to predict down the
line what it might need, right? That's
just generally a harder prediction
problem. So it's actually good to kind
of write additional details down that a
future agent might remember. And
Dreaming can always like go back and
like remove stuff that is no longer
needed.
Uh and if I go to the output memory
store here, I'll just click on it.
Um again, you can see all the files that
I created. It's another good way to sort
of see what's going uh what dreaming
did. Uh and if you wanted like a human
in the loop kind of review process, this
is kind of where uh this is super
helpful. uh human can kind of go in and
see if the dreaming harness made any
mistakes.
Okay, great. Um just going to switch
back to the slides real quick because I
want to show a diagram.
Um
yeah, so again under the hood, this is
sort of what how dreaming works, right?
This is a multi- aent harness. uh we
have an orchestrator that is mainly
responsible for spinning up sub aents
and again we spawn one sub aent per
input session that you give it. Um and
kind of the the reasons behind this are
we actually kind of want dreaming to be
exhaustive by design. Uh if you give it
100 trans like claude is looking over
all the information to make sure it's
not missing anything, right? Um
great. So now me let me switch back to
my computer again.
Uh and this time I'm going to actually
like walk through how we might use this
in a future session.
So uh once the dream uh is done, you can
actually go and grab the output memory
store using this. So again, we're we're
just retrieving the dream resource uh
with the dream ID that we created and
then uh querying or just grabbing the
the JSON memory store ID.
Great. So this is the memory store and
again you can look through what memories
it created.
Uh and now we'll do this sort of test
again that we did before with the two
sessions. So I will create a new session
here
and you'll notice that this is now using
the output memory store from dreaming.
Once again we'll send it an event here.
We're just asking it what sessions I
attended, what resources do I have links
for, and what follow-ups I flag.
Once again, going back to the console,
it's really a great way to, you know,
visualize what's going on here.
And you'll see that this time when it's
reading from memory, you'll see all the
stuff that Dreaming did, right? So, the
index, the event logistics,
and it's now reading kind of it's
starting to read the index first.
Okay, great. Now it knows I'm going to
go straight to the sessions file.
It's being a little exhaustive here.
Just checking for, you know, event
logistics.
Okay, great. Let's see what it came up
with. So, as you can see, I I'd have to
go back and show you the the previous
session, but this time I think there's a
lot actually a lot more information
here. So, it gave me a recap of all the
sessions I I attended. Uh, it's giving
me timestamps now about like all the
sessions that were that were planned for
day two as well as like the resource
links, right? I think this kind of
showcases again like how dreaming can
really enrich information that is
transferred between sessions.
And then optionally um at the end you
know if you're really happy with the
output memory store here you can go
ahead and actually retire the old memory
store. Um so this won't affect like your
previous sessions. It just means that
you no long it will it will keep you the
number of memory stores in your
organization down to a reasonable level.
Um great. So I'm going to kind of switch
back to the slides here
and talk a little bit how you can kind
of view sessions, memory stores, and
dreaming as three composable layers
here, right? If you think of a session
as a as an isolated instance of an agent
running, uh it's one usually typically
one conversation thread, typically
ephemeral, right? A memory store
augments that. So now you can connect
information between your sessions across
multiple sessions, right? And then
finally with dreaming uh you're now
organizing, enriching and improving your
memory stores over time so that as you
scale up the number of sessions you have
and as you scale up the information that
it's being processed through those
sessions, your memory stays at a
reasonable level. It's manageable. It
doesn't blow up. Also, it checks for
things like staleness to make sure all
the information is most is up to date,
right? I wanted to highlight some of the
maybe good questions that I got from the
audience here. So one of them was around
uh generally like sort of what is the
like token usage of this feature like?
Um so as I said before like I think by
design we actually do want it to be
exhaustive. So we do expect it to use a
lot of tokens. Um the the nice thing
here is that because most of the
processing is agentic uh most of the
tokens are actually cached. So we're
expecting like about a 95% cash rate
cash hit rate on um like most dream
sessions right and additionally we are
exploring like other ways of offering
this at lower costs to you. So uh
example of this would be like similar to
our batch API we could offer things at a
50% discount by scheduling it at
different times. Uh other additional
like token usage controls include like
switching the model, steering the prompt
a little bit more, also providing more
like just general budgeting of tokens.
>> Um
great. Um so I think we're just about
winding down. So I'm going to quickly
kind of go over again for the folks
remaining in the room uh like what we
went over today. Uh so again we talked
about the problem that most agents face
today which is like how do you remember
information across sessions? I think
this is a pretty like wellestablished
kind of problem now. And we talked about
how memory is kind of the first step to
addressing this right you give agents
access to something where they can dump
the information read from it etc. Uh but
we also saw how this creates a problem
where memory stores are can grow
unbounded over time. They can grow
disorganized information can grow stale
etc. And then we saw how dreaming can be
used as a way to mitigate this problem.
Right? So we we take another set of
agents that their entire job is to
improve that memory store for future
use.
Um and with that I'd like to thank
everyone for for coming to today's
workshop. Um hopefully it was helpful
and hopefully by the end you'll learn
how to uh you'll know how to like
integrate maybe memory into your own use
cases.